Variables
1. What is a variable? Why might a programmer use a variable?

Variables are the locations that Ruby uses to store information. Programmers use variables to store information pertaining to the code, so that they can use a variable if needed later instead of retyping all of the information.

2. If the value of first_name is "Abraham" and last_name is "Lincoln", explain the order in which Ruby will run the line full_name = first_name + last_name, and what the final result will be.

Ruby will run the code right to left, processing the last_name code block first, and then the first_name code block, rendering the full_name variable. The result will be AbrahamLincoln.

Data Types
3. For each of the following data types, write a short definition and give at least one example of when you might use the data type in a program. (Don't use an example we've already provided.)

string
a string is simply just a string of words in between "" 
I would use a string when telling ruby what to display to a user. Such as puts “hello world”.

integer
an integer is a whole number
I would use an integer to hold numbers in my code. This could be through user input, like if the user enters in a number as the answer to a question.

float
float is the decimal version of an integer
i would use floats for the same purpose as above, but to make my data more precise.

nil
a placeholder for something that may or may not be present
I would use nil as a placeholder for something the user can answer, but can also choose to omit.

boolean
a boolean is a short-circuit operator that runs certain statements
I use booleans to make if/else statements that process user input.

Algorithms
4. What is an algorithm?

An algorithm is a program that processes information



5. What are two common categories of algorithm in computer science? 

Trees, sorting and searching, and hashing.



Methods
6. What is a method? Why might a programmer choose to use a method?

Methods are used to clump together a bunch of different statements into a single unit. Programmers choose to use methods to make their code more readable and organized. Also, it saves a lot of time.



7. Define the following terms as they relate to a method. 

return value
value that is rendered after running the method

side effect
an unintended return value

parameter
rules of a method

argument
subject of what the method processes

implicit return
a return value that is not specified 



8. What are global scope and method scope? How do those scopes impact the availability of data at different points in a program?

Global scope: available throughout entire ruby script

method scope: only available within a method

Method scope is much smaller, and offers less data. Global scope can be accessed at any time in the program and make data much more available.



Control Flow
9. What is control flow? Why might a programmer choose to use flow control?

Flow control is the process of running information through lines of code in a certain order. Programmers use flow control to narrow down information.



10. Define the following terms as they relate to flow control.

loop
continuing program that keeps starting over after being executed

if
beginning of a conditional statement

else
executes when the “if” or “elsie” values are not fulfilled 

elsif
adds more options to conditional statement 

while
beginning of a loop

until
end of a loop